# End-to-end-Single-Cell-Analysis-Pipeline
This project focuses on deploying a modular, end-to-end Single-Cell Analysis Pipeline. The architecture leverages the robust structure of community-driven pipelines (e.g., nf-core) for primary data processing, followed by custom modules designed for advanced statistical interpretation


Run this command in your terminal:

Bash

mkdir -p config data envs results scripts workflow

## Step 1: 
### Project Structure

This project uses a standard directory layout to keep our work organized and reproducible with Nextflow.

-   `config/`: Holds configuration files, such as `nextflow.config`, which defines parameters and execution profiles (e.g., for local, Docker, or AWS execution).
-   `data/`: Stores the raw input data (e.g., FASTQ files). This directory is often excluded from version control.
-   `envs/`: Contains Conda environment files (`.yaml`) that define the specific software needed for each process in the pipeline.
-   `results/`: All output files generated by the pipeline will be saved here by default.
-   `scripts/`: For any custom helper scripts (in Python, R, etc.) that our pipeline processes might call.
-   `workflow/`: This directory can hold modular components of our pipeline, like sub-workflows or custom modules. Our main pipeline script, `main.nf`, will be in the project's root directory.



### Installing nextflow: 
curl -s https://get.nextflow.io | bash

This command does two things:
curl -s https://get.nextflow.io: Downloads the installer script.
| bash: Pipes the script directly to the bash interpreter to be executed.

move the file, we use the mv command. Because /usr/local/bin is a system directory, we also need to use sudo to get the necessary permissions.

Run this command in your terminal:

Bash

sudo mv nextflow /usr/local/bin/

## Installing tree for better and clean directory visualization 

First, you may need to install it. Run this command to install the tree utility:

Bash

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install -y tree
Now, run the tree command to see your project's structure. Using -L 1 will show you just the top level, keeping the view clean.

Bash

tree -L 1
You should see the directories we created and the nextflow file you just downloaded.

This setup looks good. Right now, to run Nextflow, you'd have to type ./nextflow every time


## Step 2: Now that our tool is ready, we can start building the pipeline itself. The core of a Nextflow pipeline is its main script file, which typically ends with the .nf extension.
